content/community/courses.md, before:

---
id: courses
title: Courses
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/courses.html
---

## Free Courses {#free-courses}

- [Glitch: React Starter Kit](https://glitch.com/glimmer/post/react-starter-kit) - A free, 5-part video course with interactive code examples that will help you learn React.

- [Codecademy: React 101](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) - Codecademy's introductory course for React.

- [Egghead.io: Start Learning React](https://egghead.io/courses/start-learning-react) - This series will explore the basic fundamentals of React to get you started.

- [React Crash Course 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ke90Tje7VS0) - A beginner-friendly crash course through the most important React topics.

- [Frontend Armory: React Fundamentals](https://frontarm.com/courses/react-fundamentals/) - Learn React without the buzzwords.

- [Egghead.io: The Beginner's Guide to ReactJS](https://egghead.io/courses/the-beginner-s-guide-to-react) - Free course for React newbies and those looking to get a better understanding of React fundamentals.

- [Free React Bootcamp](https://tylermcginnis.com/free-react-bootcamp/) - Recordings from three days of a free online React bootcamp.

- [Scrimba: Learn React for free](https://scrimba.com/g/glearnreact) - 48 hands-on video tutorials building react apps.

## Paid Courses {#paid-courses}

- [Egghead.io](https://egghead.io/browse/frameworks/react) - Short instructional videos on React and many other topics.

- [Frontend Masters](https://frontendmasters.com/learn/react/) - Video courses on React.

- [Fullstack React](https://www.fullstackreact.com/) - The up-to-date, in-depth, complete guide to React and friends.

- [Pure React](https://daveceddia.com/pure-react/) - A step-by-step guide to mastering React.

- [React for Beginners](https://reactforbeginners.com/) - Learn React in just a couple of afternoons.

- [React for Designers](https://designcode.io/react) - A 6-hour React course for designers, by designers.

- [React Essentials for Designers](https://learnreact.design) - React courses tailored for designers: the fundamentals, capabilities, limitations and how they relate to design.

- [Essential React](https://learnreact.com/lessons/2018-essential-react-1-overview) - A crash course for doers, moving fast from "Hello World" to advanced component composition.

- [React Training: Advanced React.js](https://courses.reacttraining.com/p/advanced-react) - Take your React skills to the next level.

- [Tyler McGinnis](https://tylermcginnis.com/courses) - Tyler McGinnis provides access to his courses for a monthly fee. Courses include "React Fundamentals" and "Universal React".

- [Mastering React](https://codewithmosh.com/p/mastering-react/) - Build professional interactive apps with React.

- [React Tutorial](https://react-tutorial.app) - Learn React step by step in an interactive environment with flashcards.

- [Road to React](https://www.roadtoreact.com/) - Your journey to master React in JavaScript.

- [Epic React](https://epicreact.dev/) - Confidently Ship Well-Architected Production Ready React Apps Like a Pro

Commit message:

Add free React course by the University of Helsinki (#3789)
Full Stack Open course is part of the computer science studies in the University of Helsinki, and also offered as a free massive open online course (MOOC). The main focus is on building single page applications with React that use REST APIs built with Node.js. It is available in English, Spanish, Chinese and Finnish.

content/community/courses.md, after:

---
id: courses
title: Courses
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/courses.html
---

## Free Courses {#free-courses}

- [Glitch: React Starter Kit](https://glitch.com/glimmer/post/react-starter-kit) - A free, 5-part video course with interactive code examples that will help you learn React.

- [Codecademy: React 101](https://www.codecademy.com/learn/react-101) - Codecademy's introductory course for React.

- [Egghead.io: Start Learning React](https://egghead.io/courses/start-learning-react) - This series will explore the basic fundamentals of React to get you started.

- [React Crash Course 2018](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ke90Tje7VS0) - A beginner-friendly crash course through the most important React topics.

- [Frontend Armory: React Fundamentals](https://frontarm.com/courses/react-fundamentals/) - Learn React without the buzzwords.

- [Egghead.io: The Beginner's Guide to ReactJS](https://egghead.io/courses/the-beginner-s-guide-to-react) - Free course for React newbies and those looking to get a better understanding of React fundamentals.

- [Free React Bootcamp](https://tylermcginnis.com/free-react-bootcamp/) - Recordings from three days of a free online React bootcamp.

- [Scrimba: Learn React for free](https://scrimba.com/g/glearnreact) - 48 hands-on video tutorials building react apps.

- [University of Helsinki: Full Stack Open MOOC](https://fullstackopen.com/en/) - Learn to build web applications with React. Available in English, Spanish, Chinese and Finnish.


## Paid Courses {#paid-courses}

- [Egghead.io](https://egghead.io/browse/frameworks/react) - Short instructional videos on React and many other topics.

- [Frontend Masters](https://frontendmasters.com/learn/react/) - Video courses on React.

- [Fullstack React](https://www.fullstackreact.com/) - The up-to-date, in-depth, complete guide to React and friends.

- [Pure React](https://daveceddia.com/pure-react/) - A step-by-step guide to mastering React.

- [React for Beginners](https://reactforbeginners.com/) - Learn React in just a couple of afternoons.

- [React for Designers](https://designcode.io/react) - A 6-hour React course for designers, by designers.

- [React Essentials for Designers](https://learnreact.design) - React courses tailored for designers: the fundamentals, capabilities, limitations and how they relate to design.

- [Essential React](https://learnreact.com/lessons/2018-essential-react-1-overview) - A crash course for doers, moving fast from "Hello World" to advanced component composition.

- [React Training: Advanced React.js](https://courses.reacttraining.com/p/advanced-react) - Take your React skills to the next level.

- [Tyler McGinnis](https://tylermcginnis.com/courses) - Tyler McGinnis provides access to his courses for a monthly fee. Courses include "React Fundamentals" and "Universal React".

- [Mastering React](https://codewithmosh.com/p/mastering-react/) - Build professional interactive apps with React.

- [React Tutorial](https://react-tutorial.app) - Learn React step by step in an interactive environment with flashcards.

- [Road to React](https://www.roadtoreact.com/) - Your journey to master React in JavaScript.

- [Epic React](https://epicreact.dev/) - Confidently Ship Well-Architected Production Ready React Apps Like a Pro
