content/community/podcasts.md, before:

---
id: podcasts
title: Podcasts
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/podcasts.html
---

Podcasts dedicated to React and individual podcast episodes with React discussions.

## Podcasts {#podcasts}

- [The React Podcast](https://reactpodcast.simplecast.fm/) - The podcast about everything React.js, hosted by [React Training](https://reacttraining.com)

- [JavaScript Air](https://javascriptair.com/) - All about JavaScript (currently not producing new episodes)

- [React 30](https://react30.com/) - A 30-minute podcast all about React (moved to [The React Podcast](https://reactpodcast.simplecast.fm/)).

- [React Native Radio](https://reactnativeradio.com) - Exploring React Native Together, hosted by [Infinite Red](https://infinite.red)

- [React Wednesdays](https://www.telerik.com/react-wednesdays) - Weekly live streams with the best and brightest in the React world

## Episodes {#episodes}

- [CodeWinds Episode 4](https://codewinds.com/podcast/004.html) - Pete Hunt talks with Jeff Barczewski about React.


- [JavaScript Jabber 73](https://devchat.tv/js-jabber/073-jsj-react-with-pete-hunt-and-jordan-walke) - Pete Hunt and Jordan Walke talk about React.

Commit message:

Add link to podcast "The React Native Show" (#3738)
Add link to podcast "The React Native Show" hosted by Callstack

content/community/podcasts.md, after:

---
id: podcasts
title: Podcasts
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/podcasts.html
---

Podcasts dedicated to React and individual podcast episodes with React discussions.

## Podcasts {#podcasts}

- [The React Podcast](https://reactpodcast.simplecast.fm/) - The podcast about everything React.js, hosted by [React Training](https://reacttraining.com)

- [JavaScript Air](https://javascriptair.com/) - All about JavaScript (currently not producing new episodes)

- [React 30](https://react30.com/) - A 30-minute podcast all about React (moved to [The React Podcast](https://reactpodcast.simplecast.fm/)).

- [React Native Radio](https://reactnativeradio.com) - Exploring React Native Together, hosted by [Infinite Red](https://infinite.red)

- [React Wednesdays](https://www.telerik.com/react-wednesdays) - Weekly live streams with the best and brightest in the React world

- [The React Native Show](https://callstack.com/podcast-react-native-show) - Discuss everything React Native, hosted by [Callstack](https://callstack.com/?utm_campaign=Podcast&utm_source=reactjs_org&utm_medium=community_podcasts)

## Episodes {#episodes}

- [CodeWinds Episode 4](https://codewinds.com/podcast/004.html) - Pete Hunt talks with Jeff Barczewski about React.


- [JavaScript Jabber 73](https://devchat.tv/js-jabber/073-jsj-react-with-pete-hunt-and-jordan-walke) - Pete Hunt and Jordan Walke talk about React.
